Create and execute a SQL workflow in Dataform
Overview
This lab walks you through the process to create and execute a SQL workflow in Dataform to load data in BigQuery.

Learning objectives
Create a Dataform repository.
Create and initialize a Dataform development workspace.
Create and execute a SQL workflow.
View execution logs in Dataform.



Task 1. Create a Dataform repository
In the Console, expand the Navigation menu, then select BigQuery > Dataform.

Click CREATE REPOSITORY.

On the Create repository page, do the following:

In the Repository ID field, enter quickstart-repository.

In the Region list, select us-west1.

Click CREATE.

Once the repository is created, you will see the Dataform service account. Copy and save the service account. You will need to use it later to assign necessary permissions.


Dataform will execute workflows as the service account service-791312414335@gcp-sa-dataform.iam.gserviceaccount.com.
To execute queries in Dataform, you need the following roles:
for service-791312414335@gcp-sa-dataform.iam.gserviceaccount.com:
roles/bigquery.jobUser on qwiklabs-gcp-04-a3fb13e18fda


Ignore the warning regarding the role needed to execure queries. You will grant the necessary permissions in a later step using the service account name you copied in the prior step.

Click Go to Repositories.

Note: If you get permission denied error related to API request wait for few minutes and create the repository again.
Test completed task
Progress check
Complete all progress checks to get credit for your lab!
Before continuing, please refer back to the overview page to check your progress.

Look for the Checkpoints section then click Check my progress to verify the objective for this task.


Task 2. Create and initialize a Dataform development workspace
On the Dataform page, click on the quickstart-repository repository you just created.

Click CREATE DEVELOPMENT WORKSPACE.

In the Create development workspace window, do the following:

In the Workspace ID field, enter quickstart-workspace.

Click CREATE.

Once created, click on the quickstart-workspace development workspace.

Click INITIALIZE WORKSPACE.

Test completed task


Task 3. Create a SQLX file for defining a view
In this section, you define a view that you will later use as a data source for a table.

In the Files pane, next to definitions, click the More menu (the 3 vertical dots that appear to the right of definitions when you hover over it).

Click Create file.

In the Create new file pane, do the following:

In the Add a file path field, enter definitions/quickstart-source.sqlx.

Click CREATE FILE.

Define a view
In the Files pane, expand the definitions folder.

Click quickstart-source.sqlx.

In the file, enter the following code snippet:

config {
  type: "view"
}

SELECT
  "apples" AS fruit,
  2 AS count
UNION ALL
SELECT
  "oranges" AS fruit,
  5 AS count
UNION ALL
SELECT
  "pears" AS fruit,
  1 AS count
UNION ALL
SELECT
  "bananas" AS fruit,
  0 AS count



Task 4. Create a SQLX file for table definition
In the following sections, you define the table type in a SQLX file, and then write a SELECT statement to define the table structure within the same file.

In the Files pane, next to definitions, click the More menu, and then select Create file.

In the Add a file path field, enter definitions/quickstart-table.sqlx.

Click CREATE FILE.

Define the table type, structure and dependencies
In the Files pane, expand the definitions directory.

Select quickstart-table.sqlx, and then enter the following table type and SELECT statement:

config {
  type: "table"
}

SELECT
  fruit,
  SUM(count) as count
FROM ${ref("quickstart-source")}
GROUP BY 1


Task 5. Grant Dataform access to BigQuery
In the Google Cloud console, on the Navigation menu (Navigation menu icon), select IAM & Admin > IAM.

Click VIEW BY PRINCIPALS. Next, click GRANT ACCESS

In the New principals field, enter the Dataform service account ID you copied in Task 1.

In the Select a role drop-down list, select the BigQuery Job User role.

Click Add another role, and then in the Select a role drop-down list, select the BigQuery Data Editor role.

Click Add another role, and then in the Select a role drop-down list, select the BigQuery Data Viewer role.

Click Save.

Test completed task
The new roles can take a couple of minutes to process, so if the check fails, wait a few minutes and try again.