How to start your lab and sign in to Looker
When ready, click Start Lab.

The Lab Details pane appears with the temporary credentials that you must use for this lab.

If you need to pay for the lab, a pop-up opens for you to select your payment method.

Notice your lab credentials in the Lab details pane. You use them to sign in to the Looker instance for this lab.

Note: If you use other credentials, you will get errors or incur charges.
Click Open Looker.

Enter the provided Username and Password in the Email and Password fields.

Username:

Username
Copied!
Password:

Password
Copied!
Important: You must use the credentials from the Lab Details pane on this page. Do not use your Google Cloud Skills Boost credentials. If you have a personal Looker account, do not use it for this lab.
Click Log In.

After a successful login, you see the Looker instance for this lab.

Task 1. Visualize your first Measure
Looker Measures are an aggregation of one or more dimensions (or unique attributes of the data). Measures let you calculate your Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and help you analyze your data using different attributes.

In the Airports Explore, you will determine the average elevation across all airport facilities and show that number as a single value visualization.

In the Looker navigation menu, click Explore.

Under FAA, click Airports.

The available dimensions and measures will be listed in the data panel for Airports.

Under Airports > Measures, click Average elevation.

Click Run.

Click the arrow next to Visualization to expand the window.

Once the Visualization window has expanded, you can hover your cursor over the icons to identify the available options.

Click the Single value icon.

This option creates a single value visualization that you can customize. You can also make the chart larger by collapsing the data window.

Click on the settings gear icon (settings gear icon) for Visualization.

Click Edit > Style.

Under Style, click on Value color, and select your choice of color.

Under Style, enable Show title, and provide a title in Title override box.

Click on the gear icon for Visualization to close the settings.

Click on the settings gear icon (settings gear icon) next to Run, and select Save > To an existing dashboard.

Enter a title for the visualization: Average elevation.

Click New Dashboard.

Enter a title for the new dashboard: Airports/Flights.

Click OK.

Click Save to Dashboard.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Create a dashboard

Task 2. Visualize dimensions and measures
Dimensions are unique attributes of the data that helps you describe the data. For example, in the Airports explore, the location of the airport, city, elevation levels, etc., are different dimensions. You can use both Dimensions and Measures in Looker to slice and dice your data to achieve data insights.

Next, identify the top 5 Facility Types with the highest average elevation and display the results as a bar chart. You will show the total number of airport facilities by Facility Type in the same chart.

On the Looker navigation menu, click Explore.

Under FAA, click Airports.

The available dimensions and measures will be listed in the data panel for Airports.

Under Airports > Dimensions, click Facility type.

Under Airports > Measures, click Average Elevation.

Under Airports > Measures, click Count.

On the Data tab, change Row limit to 5.

Click Run.

Click the arrow next to Visualization to expand the window.

Once the Visualization window has expanded, you can hover your cursor over the icons to identify the available options.

Click the Bar icon.

This option creates a horizontal bar visualization that you can customize. You can also make the chart larger by collapsing the data window.

Click on the settings gear icon (settings gear icon) for Visualization.

Click Values.

Under Values, enable Value labels.

Click Y.

Under Y, click on Airports and drag it under Top Axes.

Average elevation will remain under Bottom Axes.

Under Configure axes > Bottom 1, enter an Axis name: Count

Click on the gear icon for Visualization to close the settings.

Click on settings gear icon (settings gear icon) next to Run, and select Save > To an existing dashboard.

Enter a title for the visualization: Average elevation by facility type.

Select the dashboard you previously created: Airports/Flights.

Click Save to Dashboard.

Click Check my progress below to check your lab progress.

Visualize Dimensions and Measuress