Overview
Storing and querying massive datasets can be time consuming and expensive without the right hardware and infrastructure. BigQuery is an enterprise data warehouse that solves this problem by enabling super-fast SQL queries using the processing power of Google's infrastructure. Simply move your data into BigQuery and let us handle the hard work. You can control access to both the project and your data based on your business needs, such as giving others the ability to view or query your data.

You can access BigQuery in the Console, the command-line tool, or by making calls to the BigQuery REST API using a variety of client libraries such as Java, .NET, or Python. There are also a variety of third-party tools that you can use to interact with BigQuery, such as visualizing the data or loading the data.

This hands-on lab shows you how to query public tables and load sample data into BigQuery.

What you'll do
Query a public dataset
Create a new dataset
Load data into a new table
Query a custom table


Task 1. Open BigQuery
The BigQuery console provides an interface to query tables, including public datasets offered by BigQuery. The query you will run accesses a table from a public dataset that BigQuery provides. It uses standard query language to search the dataset, and limits the results returned to 10.

Open the BigQuery console
In the Google Cloud Console, select Navigation menu > BigQuery.
The Welcome to BigQuery in the Cloud Console message box opens. This message box provides a link to the quickstart guide and the release notes.

Click Done.
The BigQuery console opens.

Task 2. Query a public dataset
Click + (SQL query) to create a new query. Copy and paste the following query into the BigQuery Query editor:
#standardSQL
SELECT
 weight_pounds, state, year, gestation_weeks
FROM
 `bigquery-public-data.samples.natality`
ORDER BY weight_pounds DESC LIMIT 10;
Copied!
This data sample holds information about US natality (birth rates).

A green or red check displays depending on whether the query is valid or invalid. If the query is valid, the validator also describes the amount of data to be processed after you run the query.

This information helps determine the cost to run a query.

Click the Run button.
Your query results should resemble the following:

Query results Results table

Test completed task

Click Check my progress to verify your performed task. If you have successfully queried against the public dataset, you'll see an assessment score.

Assessment Completed!
Query a public dataset (dataset: samples, table: natality)
Assessment Completed!
Note: You can browse the schema of other public datasets in BigQuery by clicking + Add > Public Datasets, then search for "bigquery public data" in the Search Marketplace field.
Task 3. Create a new dataset
To load custom data into a table, you first need to create a BigQuery dataset.

Datasets help control access to tables and views in a project. This lab uses only one table, but you still need a dataset to hold the table.

In the Explorer pane, near your project id, click on View actions (view actions icon) then click Create dataset.
Highlighted Create dataset option in the Explorer section

Set Dataset ID to babynames.

Leave all other fields at their default settings. Click Create dataset.

Now you have a dataset.

babynames dataset highlighted in the Explorer section

Test completed task

Click Check my progress to verify your performed task. If you have successfully created the BigQuery dataset, you'll see an assessment score.

Assessment Completed! Dataset ID(s): ["babynames"]
Create a new dataset
Assessment Completed! Dataset ID(s): ["babynames"]
Task 4. Load data into a new table
Next you create a table inside the babynames dataset, then load the data file from your storage bucket into the new table.

The custom data file you'll use contains approximately 7 MB of data about popular baby names, provided by the US Social Security Administration.

In the Cloud Console, select Navigation menu > BigQuery to return to the BigQuery console.

Navigate to the babynames dataset, by clicking View actions (view actions icon) near your dataset then click Create table.

In the Create table dialog, set the following fields, leave all others at the default value:

Field	Value
Create table from	Google Cloud Storage
Select file from GCS bucket	spls/gsp072/baby-names/yob2014.txt
File format	CSV
Table	names_2014
Schema > Edit as text	Slide on, then add the following in the textbox: name:string,gender:string,count:integer
Click the Create table button.
When BigQuery is finished creating the table and loading the data, you see the names_2014 table under the babynames dataset.

Test completed task

Click Check my progress to verify your performed task. If you have successfully loaded data into the dataset table, you'll see an assessment score.

Assessment Completed! Table name(s): ["names_2014"]
Load data into your table
Assessment Completed! Table name(s): ["names_2014"]
Task 5. Preview the table
Check your table! View the first few rows of the data.

Click the names_2014 table in the left panel, then click Preview.
Preview tabbed page

Your table is ready for queries.

Task 6. Query a custom dataset
Running a query against custom data is identical to the querying a public dataset that you did earlier, except that now you're querying your own table instead of a public table.

In BigQuery, click the + (SQL query) icon at the top.

Paste or type the following query into the query Editor.

Note: If your table name is something other than babynames, update the code with your table name.
#standardSQL
SELECT
 name, count
FROM
 `babynames.names_2014`
WHERE
 gender = 'M'
ORDER BY count DESC LIMIT 5;
Copied!
Click the Run button. The query displays the top 5 boys names for the year of data (2014) you loaded into the table.
Test completed task